In The Judge's List, Lacy Stoltz, who works at the Board on Judicial Conduct, a government agency responsible for investigating judges, receives an unusual complaint one day. Jeri Crosby, the complainant, claims she has been relentlessly investigating her father's murder for 20 years. Her father was a law professor at the university, and she believes the killer is none other than Ross Bannick, a sitting judge in Florida. Jeri's investigation led her to discover that over the past 20 years, the judge had allegedly killed 8 people who had wronged him, but was never caught because he was very methodical and the murders took place in several different states. Jeri has no concrete evidence to prove her claims, except that all the victims she attributes to Bannick died the same way: with their skulls crushed and strangled with a rope around their neck using a rather peculiar type of knot. They had also all crossed paths with Bannick at some point in their lives.

At first, Lacy doesn't understand why Jeri chose to involve the BJC, because although their role is to investigate judges, complaints usually involve minor issues like incompetence, conflicts of interest, substance abuse while on duty, but not serial murders. She is reluctant to accept the case, wondering how her agency could be more competent than the police, who had already investigated and found nothing. As one might expect, she eventually allows herself to be convinced to investigate Ross Bannick, but not without considerable insistence from Jeri.

The Judge's List was definitely better than The Associate, the last John Grisham novel I had read. It was much easier to see where the story was going and the resolution was clearer. Nevertheless, there were a few sticking points.

For example, it turns out that Bannick, a 50-year-old judge, in addition to practicing law full-time, is also a computer prodigy and, from his secret bunker, manages to infiltrate multiple police department computer systems to read email exchanges. He also infiltrates Hertz North America's network to discover the identity of the private detective who is on his trail. In short, nothing except phones is safe from Bannick's hacking prowess.    
Yeah... pretty far-fetched. I think John Grisham needed Bannick, for plot purposes, to know certain information at specific times and couldn't find any other way than to make Bannick a computer expert. It's unfortunate because the story reuses this implausible narrative shortcut several times in the second half of the book.

Then there's the idiot Jeri Crosby. She knows that the BJC website has photos of all its employees (that's how she finds Lacy at the beginning of the book), she has the patience to investigate Bannick for 20 years without saying anything, but just as Lacy finally accepts the investigation, Jeri still has the stupidity to send anonymous letters to Bannick mocking him and telling him that his horrible life is coming to an end because the BJC is on his case.  
All this after harassing Lacy for weeks to accept investigating Bannick. She then has the audacity to tell Lacy to be careful and that Ross Bannick probably suspects something.

Finally, there are questions left without satisfactory answers. For example, when Bannick captured Jeri and asked her what she knew about his murders, why did he deny 2 of the 8, but proudly accepted all the others and even confessed to additional ones? Why the elaborate and brutal suicide where he melts his fingers in acid (to remove his fingerprints) when he had plenty of time to leave the United States and start a new life elsewhere as he told Jeri he would?

In short, I enjoyed The Judge's List, but certain elements like those described above distracted me from the story at times.
