I had been waiting for the release of The Amateur since last fall. The trailer suggested it would be a Jason Bourne-style film, but with a main character motivated by revenge and who has no training for "fieldwork."

That's what it was, for the most part. Charlie, a CIA cryptographer, decides to avenge his wife Sarah after she is killed during a hostage situation in London. Meanwhile, he has also discovered documents revealing that his superiors orchestrated illegal drone attacks in foreign countries and passed them off as suicide bombings. Charlie is therefore hunted by CIA agents while he travels across Europe trying to find the 4 people responsible for his wife's death.

Like in the Jason Bourne films, I enjoyed all the traveling. His hunt for the assassins takes Charlie to Paris, Marseille, Madrid, Istanbul, Romania, and Russia. The confrontations with the assassins were original, but not surprising, since unfortunately, the trailer had already revealed 2 of the 3.

The film was good overall, but I was disappointed by the ending. It was unsatisfying and made no sense.
In Russia, on the trail of Shiller, the last of the 4 hostage-takers, and most importantly, the one who pulled the trigger on Sarah, Charlie gets captured and brought to Shiller's boat off the coast of Primorsk, in the Gulf of Finland. Shiller learns that Charlie isn't an agent investigating his operations, but simply an ordinary man seeking to avenge his wife's murder. In an incomprehensible gesture, Shiller gives his weapon to Charlie and kneels before him to give him the opportunity to exact his revenge. This scene was as stupid as the one where McCall disarms himself in front of the mafiosis in Equalizer 3. There's no logical explanation as to why the characters act this way, except that the film's writers were willing to sacrifice the story's credibility for a dramatic moment.
Charlie then points the gun at the head of the man he put so much effort into hunting and... refuses to shoot. How does he get his revenge then? Before being captured, he had hacked the boat's navigation system, and the discussion with Shiller gave him enough time to drift out of Russian waters and be located by the Finnish coast guard. As if Charlie, in his masterplan, knew that Shiller would talk to him instead of simply putting a bullet in his head and sending him sinking in the gulf. Also, it's hard to imagine that having a man arrested who was ready to die minutes earlier is a satisfying revenge for Charlie. It certainly wasn't one for me, after seeing one of the criminals explode and another fall from a glass swimming pool suspended 200 feet in the air.

The Amateur is overall a good movie, but the best sequences are in the trailer, and that's a shame.
