Kyle McAvoy is a 25-year-old lawyer, fresh out of Yale, with a promising future in law. This situation changes when one day, a stranger named Bennie Wright comes to see Kyle and tells him he has a video of him and 3 of his friends from their college years that could be major evidence to accuse them of rape. Knowing that the video is ambiguous enough to cost him his career or, at minimum, his reputation, Kyle finds himself forced to do what Bennie asks: get hired at Scully & Pershing, the largest law firm in the world, and steal documents in a case between two military industry titans worth hundreds of billions of dollars.

It was a good read and while reading it, I was eager to know what would happen next, but the ending was underwhelming. I don't know how John Grisham writes his books, but I'm pretty sure he started this one without knowing exactly how it would end. Some characters, like Jeff Tabor, the Harvard lawyer, are developed to the point where I thought they would eventually become important, but no. It looks like they only served to show how miserable life in these big firms is despite the astronomical salaries.

At the end of the story, Kyle, despite being constantly watched by Bennie and his men, manages to get help from a lawyer and the FBI without Bennie knowing. The FBI agents, who have no idea of Bennie's true identity, devise a plan to catch him in the hotel room where Kyle is supposed to hand over the stolen documents. When Kyle goes to the meeting, surrounded by an army of agents, the hotel room is... empty. Bennie has disappeared. Kyle, convinced that Bennie will never be seen again because he's so much smarter than the FBI people, considers himself out of danger and refuses to enter the witness protection program, deciding to return to his normal life.

The story leaves many questions unanswered. In the last 30 pages, after the failed arrest attempt, I was desperately waiting for a plot twist that never came. Bennie's barely perceptible accent that Kyle mentions several times? We'll never know. Bennie's true identity and his backers? No, sorry. At the end, Kyle hypothesizes that Bennie is a U.S. government agent, which explains why he will never be caught. That's an unsatisfying conclusion if you ask me. Who was the Scully & Pershing associate who spied for Bennie? We won't know that either. A very subtle line suggests it might be Doug Peckham, Kyle's mentor, but it's not clear.

In short, I enjoyed The Associate, but I would have a hard time convincing myself to read it again, knowing the very little payoff at the end of its 500 pages.
