I spent part of my Sunday afternoon organizing my itinerary and booking hotels in Japan. From what I've read online and talking to people who have been there, I'm going to focus on Tokyo and Osaka/Kyoto. Osaka and Kyoto are two large cities that are only 50 km apart, and I've been told it's better and cheaper to stay in Osaka.

In Tokyo, there's surely enough to see and do for at least 4-5 days. I'd also like to take a day to go to Mount Fuji, if February weather permits. From Osaka, I want to spend a day (maybe two) in Kyoto, one in Nara, and another in Hiroshima. Taking all this into account, I decided to stay in Tokyo from February 16th to 21st, in Osaka from the 21st to 28th, and finally return to Tokyo for the last night of the trip.

For the first 5 nights in Tokyo, I found a hotel in Shimbashi for $640, 100 meters from the metro station of the same name. From what I've read, it's ideal to be near the Yamanote Line, a metro line that loops around the city and connects most of its points of interest. Also, it's apparently a quieter and cleaner area than Shinjuku, where many of the cheaper hotels offered on hotels.com are located.

For the next 7 nights in Osaka, I got a hotel in Kitahama for $563, between the Namba/Shinsaibashisuji and Kitaku districts, which seem to be the two most interesting areas of the city. Like Shimbashi and Shinjuku in Tokyo, I preferred Kitahama to Namba for the balance between tranquility and vitality. 2 km south of Namba is Airin-chiku, formerly called Kamagasaki, which is Japan's biggest slum.

For the last night in Tokyo, I found a hotel for $93 in Akasaka, roughly halfway between Shimbashi and Shinjuku.

Searching for accommodations in Japan was both easier and more difficult than in North America and even Europe. It's much cheaper, considering that a month earlier, I booked 9 nights in New York, Philadelphia, and Chicago for an average of $260 per night. This meant I had many more hotels and neighborhoods to look at and compare. Also, it seemed less clear, just by looking at a map of Tokyo and Osaka, where the downtown areas, points of interest, good neighborhoods, bad neighborhoods, etc., were located. More than usual, I needed to read what people thought about different districts.
