I finished the third season of the Reacher series, which was released earlier this year. I was eager to see if the writers would return to something closer to the excellent first season, or continue along the same lines as the much less impressive second season.  
The beginning of the first episode seriously made me doubt. When Reacher impulsively shot a police officer, then fled in the van with the young man he had just saved from a kidnapping, nervous about being chased by a campus security guard, I thought I had my answer.  
Actually, no. I’ll spoil it, since it’s revealed later in the same episode, but the kidnapping and the “dead” police officer were staged to allow Reacher, in collaboration with the DEA, to infiltrate the young man’s father’s business. Just as the Count of Monte Cristo is introduced to Parisian high society by saving Fernand de Morcerf’s son from fake bandits, Reacher meets Zachary Beck, a wealthy rug merchant, by preventing his son Richard from being kidnapped.

Following the event, Beck, who is indebted to Reacher and believes him responsible for the murder of a police officer, invites him to stay in his mansion to escape the search. He entrusts him with the mission of watching over Richard.  
Reacher takes advantage of his stay with the Becks to secretly inform the DEA about the activities of Bizarre Bazaar, which is clearly more than just a rug company. However, what really interests him is the possible involvement of Xavier Quinn in Beck’s business. Quinn is a psychopath and former lieutenant colonel in the army who sold state secrets and brutally killed Dominique Kohl, Reacher’s protégé, when she got too close to his dealings. By some miraculous circumstances, he managed to survive the bullet Reacher put in his head years earlier.

I’m very happy with this season. The plot was well put together and there was just the right amount of Neagley, whom I found far too present in season 2. The character of Reacher has returned to what he was in the first season, that is, independent and not very talkative. Reacher's dynamic with Duffy and Villanueva was similar to the one he had with Roscoe and Finlay.  
I’m looking forward to season 4. It shouldn’t be released anytime soon, but that will give me time to catch up on the books.
