I just finished the second season of Reacher, and I must say that while I enjoyed it, it was still a few levels below the first one. The main plot was decent, the action scenes were good too when they weren't too far-fetched, but overall it was disappointing.

In one sentence, it could be summed up by saying that what made season 1 unique compared to other films and series of the genre has essentially disappeared in season 2. I hope that for season 3, which is set to release early next year, the series' writers will correct course and return to something more resembling to what they did in the first season.

#### Reacher Has Changed
During season 1, Reacher was solitary and self-reliant. His physical abilities and exceptional deductive skills made him capable of conducting his own investigation independently. Eventually, Finley and Roscoe followed him in his quest and, although he was able to take advantage of the fact that they're police to be on crime scenes, he never really relied on them. It was rather the opposite; joining Reacher was their best chance of staying alive and saving Margrave.

During season 2, Reacher joins forces with a small multidisciplinary squad formed of his former teammates from the 110th unit, Neagley, Dixon, and O'Donnell. While in season 1 he was the brains and the muscle, in season 2, the "brain" part is delegated to Neagley, as evidenced by this joke that the series' writers thought it was good to insert 4 or 5 times over the span of 8 episodes:

— Reacher: Did I ever tell you you were smart, Neagley?  
— Neagley: Not nearly enough...!

We get it: Neagley just found an important element of the investigation.

Reacher is also less rational and consistent with himself than in season 1. It's quite subtle, but on a few occasions he gets caught in contradictions, which would have been unthinkable when he was in Margrave. The most obvious proof of this is that he persists in saying "in an investigation, assumptions kill", but forbids his team from even considering the possibility that their ex-teammate Tony Swan might be part of the scheme they're investigating.

#### Clichés
Next, season 2 contains many clichés. A dialogue from episode 6 was ironically very fitting, as Detective Russo, frustrated with Reacher's gang's "cowboy shit", returns to his car after giving them an earful:

— O'Donnell: He's like that angry pissed off detective from that movie.  
— Neagley: Which one?  
— O'Donnell: All of them.

Yes, exactly. All of them. This scene of the good cop who has to remind the protagonists that he's risking his job to help them, we've already seen it hundreds of times. Here are a few other clichés that we find in abundance in Reacher season 2:

- Forced emotional scenes
- Banter and unnecessary dialogues that add a touch of humor, but don't advance the story or the characters
- Protagonists who manage to have witty comebacks in extreme danger situations
- "Flashes of genius" following an innocuous phrase
- When a character finishes someone else's sentence to explain to the audience a breakthrough that has just been made

#### Dumb Scenes
At one point, Reacher, Neagley, and O'Donnell have 2 minutes and a maximum of 3 attempts to unlock Franz's (a former teammate from the 110th unit) computer, or else the hard drive will be erased. On the third and final attempt, we discover that the password was "Reacher". In the era of multi-factor authentication and passwords with at least one number, one uppercase letter, and one special character, I'm supposed to believe that the password of Franz's ultra-secure computer is simply the name of the guy who was his commander? He goes to the trouble of putting a protection that erases the hard drive after 3 wrong attempts, but chooses a 7-letter password?

During the final scene of the last episode, Reacher is lying flat in a helicopter while being hit by Langston, the main antagonist of the season. His arms are out of the rear hatch and holding the stretcher to which Dixon is tied. No way to defend himself without dropping Dixon to certain death! All seems lost. The only chance Reacher has to save Dixon and himself is the slim chance that Langston is an absolute idiot and decides to recount his evil plan instead of taking advantage of Reacher's perfect vulnerability to kill him and thus fly off to freedom with his millions of dollars. I don't want to spoil the punch for anyone, so I won't say exactly what happens, but suffice it to say that Reacher, Dixon, and O'Donnell make it out alive.
