This morning, I received an email from Vélo Québec Voyages offering a guided trip for the Five Boro Bike Tour in May 2025. The Five Boro Bike Tour is like the Tour de l'île, but in New York. Interested, I went to see what Vélo Québec was offering.

For a single person, it cost $2,590 including taxes, which I found quite expensive for a 3-day trip, one of which being essentially dedicated to bus travel. Logistically, I wasn't thrilled about departing from Saint-Lambert at 6 a.m. on a Friday and arriving back there past midnight on a Sunday night.

I tried to see what it would be like if I organized this trip myself. No need to stay in a 4-star hotel, and I could always rent a bike once in New York instead of having to manage transporting my own bike.

Staying in New York is quite expensive. I wanted to be within a reasonable distance of Battery Park, at the tip of Manhattan, where the tour starts. I found the Hotel Mimosa, a 30-minute walk away, between Chinatown and the Lower East Side, for just over $800 for 2 nights. It was the best combination of price, location, cancellation policy, and good reviews I could find.  
In addition to these $825, there's the travel between Montréal and New York (let's say $600 in the worst case), registration for the Five Boro Bike Tour (150 USD ≈ $200), bike rental (maximum $200), and meals ($200-300). Even with conservative estimates, I'm coming in $500 below the price asked by Vélo Québec. Plus, I would have the freedom to handle the organization myself. I immediately booked the Hotel Mimosa, knowing I have until the end of April to cancel without charge.
