The day after booking at Hotel in New York, I thought about the logistics of the trip, particularly the last day, when the Five Boro Bike Tour takes place. Unlike the Tour de l'île in Montréal, the FBBT is not a loop. It starts in Manhattan but ends on Staten Island, from where participants can then take a ferry back to Manhattan. With the FBBT welcoming over 30,000 people (twice the Tour de l'île), I could easily imagine the chaos and hours of waiting to take the ferry, which apparently only runs once an hour. To spare myself the stress, I needed a flexible return plan to Montréal.

I could have booked an extra night in New York (on Sunday), but that would have meant spending another $400+ for not much more vacation time. Might as well go with Vélo Québec. That's when I started thinking about the Chicago trip I couldn't make this year and wanted to do in 2025. Why not kill two birds with one stone by extending my vacation and going to Chicago after New York? From New York, Chicago is far, and I would have found myself with the same problem as if I had to leave for Montréal. However, I thought there might be an intermediate destination not too far from New York that I could visit in between. Step by step, I devised a plan: leave for Philadelphia on Sunday after doing the FBBT, stay there for 2-3 days, and finish with 3-4 days in Chicago.

I quickly checked if it was feasible: there is at least a train every hour between New York and Philadelphia. It takes 1.5 hours and costs between 30 and 50 USD. Then, I checked hotels: in Philadelphia, I found The Windsor Suites, 500 meters from City Hall for $700/3 nights, and in Chicago, I found the Found Chicago, a boutique hotel in River North for $850/4 nights. It wasn't too bad. So I booked both hotels, which were also cancellable with full refund up to a few days before the trip.
