Our Little Secret isn't the type of movie I would have watched on my own, but I found it surprisingly good. Obviously, no surprise, it's a classic Christmas movie where everything ends well for everyone, even the pretentious and "mean" mother-in-law.

The opening scene was ridiculous and didn't bode well for the rest of the movie. Fortunately, it was the worst scene of all and it only got better from there. The story begins when Logan, at a Christmas party with his girlfriend Avery's family, gets down on one knee to propose. Despite obvious signs from Avery and 2-3 other people that he should get up and move on, Logan still decides to go ahead with his marriage proposal. It ends as one might expect and an argument immediately breaks out. This is how Logan and Avery's relationship ends.

Several years later, Logan and Avery are each in new relationships and are celebrating Christmas with their respective partner's family. After years of not having seen each other, they are very surprised to run into each other in their in-laws' large house. Indeed, by an incredible coincidence, it turns out that Cassie, Logan's girlfriend, and Cameron, Avery's boyfriend, are actually brother and sister. Logan and Avery decide to pretend they don't know each other to avoid making everyone uncomfortable. Will they manage to keep their... wait for it... little secret?

All the ingredients of a cheesy Christmas romantic comedy were present, but I liked it anyway. It was watchable if you're not looking for an original story, and I think the 5.8 score on IMDB is a bit harsh for what it is.
