This week, I decided to go see John Wick 4 at the cinema. Certainly, with a score of 7.7/10 on IMDb, it must be worth it, I thought.

Now that I've seen it, I have to say no, it wasn't worth it. Usually, I find that IMDb scores are a pretty good indicator of how much I will appreciate a movie. In this case, it wasn't. When I think that 7.7/10 is the same score as The Bourne Supremacy and almost the same score as Taken and The Bourne Identity (7.8), I can't believe it. If those movies are 7.7-7.8's/10, John Wick 4 is at most a 4/10.

The film lasts 2 hours and 49 minutes, which wouldn't have been a problem if the plot was any good. But no, the majority of this time is filled with numerous combat scenes, each one endless, where John Wick alone defeats an army of men in ski masks who come at him one after another. Not only is it unrealistic and stupid, but it also becomes repetitive and boring when you understand that John Wick is invincible. And boy, do the film's directors do everything in their power to convince us that John Wick is an invincible badass. It's like they desperately want John Wick to become the Chuck Norris of the 2020s. Remember those jokes like, "Chuck Norris doesn't negotiate with terrorists. The terrorists negotiate with Chuck Norris"? It seems like the filmmakers made this movie only in the hope of being able to read such jokes on the internet later on. "If we sent John Wick to Ukraine, Russia would be conquered after a week". Funny, right? How about this one: "John Wick is such a stud that he can put you to sleep through a movie screen just by you looking at him fight"?

I say it without exaggeration: they could have removed one hour of pointless action scenes and it would have made the movie better. Yes, 60 minutes. At one point, John Wick has to climb the stairs of the Basilica of Sacré Coeur, which has hundreds and hundreds of steps. Of course, every 15 steps, he is attacked by dozens of NPCs whom he effortlessly destroys. This scene feels like it's 4 hours long. Almost at the top, he gets pushed, and we see him tumble down the stairs we saw him climb for several minutes. After tumbling down one landing, he tumbles down another and another... and another. It was comical, but that's when it struck me: we will have to endure the staircase scene a second time. The horror.

If you still decide to go see John Wick 4, here's the advice I can give you: keep in mind that the movie lasts 2 hours and 49 minutes. At several moments during these 2 hours and 49 minutes, you'll feel like it's an endless movie, and you're condemned to watch John Wick headshot faceless men for the next 20 years of your life. But no, it's an illusion. The movie "only" lasts 2 hours and 49 minutes. So hang in there, breathe through your nose, and tell yourself it'll be over soon.
