I had been expecting to find my "big" trip for 2025 for several weeks. The one I did in Europe earlier this year, I found it in August 2023. The one to Portugal in April 2023, I found it in September 2022. I kept receiving emails from les vols d'Alexi, YUL Deals, and others, but there was always something that didn't work out.

It must be said that since I planned to go to the United States for the first week of May, it was a bit more complicated than usual: taking 2 weeks off in April would have meant taking 3 weeks of vacation in (nearly) the same month. Same thing for January: it couldn't be too close to the Christmas holidays. I like to spend summer in Quebec. Especially since it's tourist season everywhere and, depending on the destination, intense heat. This left me with the choice between March or later in the fall.

When I got home from work, I received an email from YUL Deals: round trip Montreal-Tokyo for $905, taxes included with 2 checked bags. Japan for less than $1000 seemed like an excellent deal to me. Everyone I know who has gone there paid somewhere between $1600 and $2000 for their plane ticket. I quickly checked the dates on Google Flights: as soon as it fell in March, prices started at $1600-1700. I tried the last two weeks of February: $905. The dates were therefore chosen: I didn't want to leave earlier and I couldn't leave later while staying in the same price range.

The outbound flight on Saturday, February 15, had to be either at 6:00 AM or 9:15 AM. I would have preferred 9:15 AM, but that would have given me only 2 hours layover in Chicago; I took 6:00 AM, even though it meant waking up before 3:00 AM and having a 5-hour layover. The scheduled arrival in Tokyo was Sunday at 5:45 PM. Less than 90 minutes after receiving the YUL Deals email, I bought my ticket for $906 on the United Airlines website, knowing I had 24 hours to change my mind without charge.
