The story begins with the very sordid murder of an elderly woman, Vita Berlin. During the investigation, we learn that she did everything she could to annoy people around her and that few liked her. There is then a second, third, fourth, and fifth murder, all attributed to the same killer due to the way the bodies were dissected. At first glance, the victims have nothing linking them together, but the investigation eventually converges on the Ventura psychiatric hospital where, 20 years ago, there lived an 11-year-old boy who had a morbid fascination with the human body.

I enjoyed "Victims". In particular, the ending was much better than what the first three-quarters of the book suggested. It wasn't bad, not at all, but a bit monotonous in the sense that, despite the murders that kept happening, there weren't many twists: investigators find a body, they question some people, follow some leads, rinse and repeat for each new corpse with growing frustration at being unable to find a common thread between the victims. At the same time, this is probably more truthful to how most police investigations actually work. And I liked that there wasn't any fluff outside of the investigation, as there can sometimes be too much of in Michael Connelly's novels, for example.

As I mentioned, the story becomes really more interesting in the last quarter of the book, specifically when we learn the killer's name. We better understand what connects the victims and become aware of an accomplice, which hadn't been suspected before. Better yet, it's someone the investigators had questioned at the very beginning, following Vita Berlin's death.

Would I read this book again? Maybe in a few years when I'll have forgotten most of what happens. One thing is certain: this was my first Jonathan Kellerman novel, but it won't be my last.
