Tonight, I went to see Heretic at the cinema. If you enjoyed The Black Phone or Speak No Evil, which came out in September, you should like this one.

Two young women, Sister Paxton and Sister Barnes, from the Mormon church, are on an evangelization mission. They knock on the doors of people who have expressed interest in learning more about their religion, hoping to have a conversation with them about it.

They are far from the city and the weather is starting to turn bad when they arrive at a small isolated house on a country road. Classic! The occupant, Mr. Reed, a friendly and charismatic man in his fifties, opens the door. Sisters Paxton and Barnes have a policy of only entering someone's home if another woman is present, but since it's starting to rain and Reed assures them his wife is in another room baking a blueberry pie, he convinces them to come in.

Reed's house is a cliché of dreariness: dark and old-fashioned, with creaking floors. As if that wasn't enough, it sometimes loses power, plunging them all into total darkness. A few times, Reed goes to check on his wife's progress with the pie and leaves the girls alone in the living room for several long minutes. They become increasingly uncomfortable with the house's atmosphere, but especially with the absence of Reed's wife. Sister Barnes pretends to take a call that will serve as an excuse to take leave of their host, but they realize the front door they came in through won't open. They ask Reed for help to leave his house, but when he cheerfully suggests they choose one of two doors in the back, they quickly realize going back home will be much more complicated than expected.

I liked that the film doesn't waste time establishing tension. Within 10 minutes, we were already in Reed's house and could suspect something was wrong. Like in Speak No Evil, there was this aspect where the protagonists, out of politeness, respect for social conventions, and fear of confrontation, accept an unpleasant situation for as long as the antagonist isn't openly hostile with them. Out of fear of discomfort, they will do anything to convince themselves of the other's good faith, and if they believe there's the slightest chance it's all a misunderstanding, they will refuse to follow their instincts and choose to put themselves in danger.

In Heretic, Reed, despite the curiosity he shows at the beginning of the film regarding the sisters' discourse, is actually an atheist who hates all forms of religion. For him, they are all more or less improved or worsened versions of the same source mythology. The religious women who knock on doors to evangelize their community are to Mormonism what Tony the Tiger is to Frosted Flakes. When he presents the sisters with the choice of two doors, he writes "belief" on one and "disbelief" on the other. We finally realize, when Sister Paxton escapes, that "belief" and "disbelief" (the two doors) lead to the same place.

I enjoyed pretty much everything about the film, except that sometimes it seemed the dialogues tried too hard to be clever and wanted to emphasize too many things. They stated the film's morals and messages without any subtlety, not letting us draw our own conclusions. It was almost as if the screenwriters wanted to make sure the viewer understood all the metaphors they thought of while writing the story. All that was missing was Reed turning to the fourth wall, grabbing the camera with both hands, and telling us directly "The only true religion is control". The scene where Sister Paxton is semi-conscious, sitting against a wall after having a box cutter thrust into her abdomen, and starts talking in a weak voice about this scientific study that concluded prayer changes nothing made me roll my eyes.

Besides that, and despite the entire paragraph I just wrote, I would watch Heretic again without hesitation. It's a fun movie and time flew by.