### 5:30 PM JST
The plane landed fifteen minutes early at the airport. Good thing, because I had been having stomach pains for at least 4 hours, either from the tortilla in Chicago or from the food they served us on the plane. The last hours of the journey were difficult; I was counting the minutes one by one.

<Carousel
    images="/assets/2025/02/20250216_japan/landing.jpg",
    caption="Landing at Haneda"
/>

At Haneda Airport, my first stop was the bathroom. I got to see (and test) those famous Japanese toilets. It was as advertised; there was an option for everything.

Then, I had to go through customs. It was quick. A few days before leaving, I had filled out a form on the [Visit Japan Web](https://services.digital.go.jp/en/visit-japan-web/) website, which meant I only had to wait in line and show a QR code on my phone.

Since I was already in Terminal 3, I went to the Ninja Wifi kiosk to pick up the SIM card I had bought online.

Finally, I went to an area where there were machines to buy a "Welcome Suica" card. Since different companies operate train and subway lines in Japan, IC cards, like the Suica card, provide access to the entire network without having to buy tickets for transfers from one line to another. It's also simpler because the cost of a trip depends on the number of stations traveled (unlike in Montréal where it's a fixed rate).  
I wasn't sure how much money to put on my card, so I put 10,000 ¥ (~$100). I preferred to have too much than not enough, since the Suica card can also be used in convenience stores and some restaurants.

<Carousel
    images="/assets/2025/02/20250216_japan/toilets.jpg,/assets/2025/02/20250216_japan/ninjawifi.jpg,/assets/2025/02/20250216_japan/ninjawifi2.jpg,/assets/2025/02/20250216_japan/suica.jpg",
    caption="At Haneda Airport"
/>

With all that done, I was finally ready to head to my hotel, [The Millennials](https://maps.app.goo.gl/iVtLg68rEfrY6paT8) in Shibuya. From the airport, I took the Keikyū Main Line to Shinagawa Station.

The subway was immaculate, both the platform and the cars, to the point where a dentist could have set up their practice there. For one of the world's busiest subways, it was striking to see how new the cars looked. People waited patiently in line at the designated spots.  
In the car, advertisements were hung from the ceiling. Above the doors, there were screens announcing the next stations. Every few seconds, the display would change languages between kanji, hiragana, and English. People were reading, on their phones, or sleeping. About half were wearing a mask. No one had their bag on the seat next to them, and you couldn't hear any sound coming from anyone's phone.

<Carousel
    images="/assets/2025/02/20250216_japan/keikyu.jpg,/assets/2025/02/20250216_japan/keikyu2.jpg,/assets/2025/02/20250216_japan/keikyu3.jpg,/assets/2025/02/20250216_japan/keikyu4.jpg",
    caption="The Keikyū line from the airport to Shinagawa"
/>

At Shinagawa station, I took the Yamanote line to Shibuya.  
A comment that applies to all my travel in Japan is that the subway/train stations are huge, and transferring between lines isn't as simple as it is in Montréal. Depending on the station, you have to go up, go down, walk 200 meters, go outside, come back inside, go up again, ...  
It was always well marked, though.

<Carousel
    images="/assets/2025/02/20250216_japan/shinagawa.jpg,/assets/2025/02/20250216_japan/shinagawa2.jpg,/assets/2025/02/20250216_japan/shinagawa3.jpg,/assets/2025/02/20250216_japan/shinagawa4.jpg",
    caption="The Yamanote line from Shinagawa to Shibuya"
/>

Shibuya is the second largest station in Tokyo with a ridership of about [3 million people](https://www.jrpass.com/fr/blog/the-biggest-and-busiest-train-stations-in-japan) per day. For comparison, Montréal's Berri-UQAM had a ridership of [8.7 million people](https://www.stm.info/fr/a-propos/informations-entreprise-et-financieres/rapport-annuel-2023/rapport-dactivite#:~:text=L'achalandage%20STM%20a%20progress%C3%A9,soit%20le%20nombre%20de%20correspondances.) during the entire year of 2023. When I got off the train, I was overwhelmed by a flood of people going in all directions. I tried to read the signs on the ceiling without slowing anyone down, but I ended up following the crowd, thinking it would probably lead me to the [Shibuya Crossing](https://maps.app.goo.gl/PVM4VAPne1XA7D9FA).

I ended up at [Shibuya Sky](https://maps.app.goo.gl/qtipxep4BpWspYEA8), a block away from the Shibuya Crossing. I had no idea where I was going, and the station's wifi signal wasn't very good. I was trying my best to navigate with Google Maps, but without much success. After 10 minutes of trying different paths, climbing various walkways, crossing streets that weren't the right ones, I found the Shibuya Crossing. No need for GPS to confirm: you automatically know when you're there. It's a giant intersection with hundreds and hundreds of people at each corner, tall buildings illuminated by screens, and lights everywhere. It looked a lot like Times Square, but more orderly.

<Carousel
    images="/assets/2025/02/20250216_japan/shibuya.jpg,/assets/2025/02/20250216_japan/shibuya2.jpg,/assets/2025/02/20250216_japan/shibuya3.jpg,/assets/2025/02/20250216_japan/shibuya4.jpg,/assets/2025/02/20250216_japan/shibuya5.jpg,/assets/2025/02/20250216_japan/shibuya7.jpg,/assets/2025/02/20250216_japan/shibuya6.jpg",
    caption="In Shibuya, on the way to the hotel"
/>

### 8:15 PM JST
I arrived at The Millennials hotel at 8:15 PM. Once I reached the Shibuya Crossing, it was quick and easy to find with the instructions the reception had sent me. The area has so many tall buildings and lights that it wasn't hard to find visual landmarks. Fortunately, because The Millennials has a tiny entrance that you could easily miss if you're not paying attention.

The hotel had a similar vibe to the HI New Orleans, where I stayed 3 years earlier: at the reception, hip 20-year-old girls with valley girl accents and a clientele mostly aged between 25 and 35. I checked in, then went up to the 5th floor to my capsule (A17).

On the floor, near the elevator, there were toilets, showers, and even a washer and dryer. 

The capsules at The Millennials are more spacious than those at other capsule hotels: they're not stacked. They were small cubicles side by side with just enough space for a single bed, not an inch more. Under the bed, there was storage space for luggage, and at the entrance of the capsule (at the foot of the bed) an opaque blind that could be lowered to the floor. In the capsule, there was an iPod Touch with an app to control brightness, the bed's incline, and set an alarm if needed.

<Carousel
    images="/assets/2025/02/20250216_japan/millenials.jpg,/assets/2025/02/20250216_japan/millenials2.jpg,/assets/2025/02/20250216_japan/millenials3.jpg,/assets/2025/02/20250216_japan/millenials4.jpg,/assets/2025/02/20250216_japan/millenials5.jpg",
    caption="The Millennials hotel"
/>
 
I settled into my bed and tried to install the Ninja Wifi SIM card in my phone. No matter how much I followed the instructions, restarted my phone, removed and reinserted the SIM card multiple times, I still couldn't connect to the Internet. Not only that, but while filming the capsule's features, I noticed there was now a sound effect when I took photos and when I started recording videos. At first, I thought I had made a mistake, but while looking for how to disable this sound, I read that privacy laws in Japan force phones to act this way: it came from the SIM card.  
Nothing I did could change that. Apparently, there was a way by installing the SetEdit app, except my phone wasn't recent enough for it to work.

At 11:30 PM, frustrated with having paid $70 for a SIM card that didn't work and would make a noise every time I took a photo, I finally gave up. Tomorrow, I would need to wake up early to avoid facing the crowd at the Tsukiji market.
