This morning, I woke up early to go to Beauty's for brunch. The restaurant opened at 8:00 AM, and since it's a well-known spot in Montréal, I figured it would fill up quickly. At 7:30 AM, I was on my way. There was hardly anyone on Park Avenue as the sun was beginning to rise.

<Carousel
    images="/assets/2024/11/20241110_beautys/parc.jpg",
    caption="Park Avenue"
/>

I arrived 10 minutes before opening and was quite surprised to see there wasn't a line out front. For a moment, I doubted whether it was actually open, before pressing my nose against the door and seeing there were employees inside.

<Carousel
    images="/assets/2024/11/20241110_beautys/beautys.jpg",
    caption="Beauty's"
/>

There were 5 of us who entered when Beauty's opened its doors at 8:00. I sat at a small table for two near the kitchen. The decor was very "old-time luncheonette" with the patterned floor, the booths, and the counter with leather stools.

<Carousel
    images="/assets/2024/11/20241110_beautys/inside.jpg,/assets/2024/11/20241110_beautys/inside2.jpg",
    caption="Inside Beauty's"
/>

There were many choices and the menu, with its Jewish inspiration, was unique, featuring items like Russian bread and blintzes. Wanting to try everything, I ordered the SuperBeauty's with coleslaw and orange juice. The SuperBeauty's consisted of 2 eggs, 2 pancakes, 2 sausages, 2 slices of bacon, 1 bagel, and home fries. It was good, and the orange juice in particular was flavorful and seemed freshly squeezed.

<Carousel
    images="/assets/2024/11/20241110_beautys/breakfast.jpg",
    caption="The SuperBeauty's"
/>

As I was finishing the bagel, which was the last thing left on my plate, I heard one server tell another in English that they would need to free up "23" soon. I quickly figured out who 23 was when a minute later, they cleared my table and handed me my bill. In their defense, as much as the restaurant was near-empty at 8:00, it was already full by 8:30.

Finally, the service was decent, apart from feeling a bit rushed to pay and leave quickly. The meal was quality and I was full afterward, but next time, I think I'll try something less classic than eggs, pancakes, etc., because that's something I can find in pretty much any breakfast restaurant, probably for less money. If I come back to Beauty's, I would definitely try that Russian bread or those blintzes.
