After trying to develop this website with Ruby and Jekyll (since it's the default framework for GitHub Pages), I finally decided to switch to React. I'm ~~always~~ often ready to learn new languages, new frameworks, and new tools, but I admit that for this project, building the website doesn't interest me as much as having a place of my own where I can write articles from time to time.

Knowing nothing about Ruby or Jekyll and wanting to invest minimal time to get a blog to my liking, I ended up copy-pasting small bits of code found here and there on Stack Overflow without really trying to understand what I was doing. This is how I managed to have sub-categories of posts, which Jekyll calls "subcollections". Then, I wanted to change the very generic default theme to have something a bit more original. However, GitHub Pages only supports about a dozen themes that all look more or less the same, just with different colors. Well, it wasn't ideal, but the "Minima" theme had to do.

Next, I wanted to add the ability to view the website in both French and English. There's a Ruby "gem" for this (`jekyll-multiple-languages-plugin`), but its source code needed to be slightly modified to translate posts in collections (folders) other than `_posts`. This was the hack that broke the camel's back. Assuming I managed to do what I wanted, I felt like I would constantly have to resort to these kinds of solutions to get a website that I would never be entirely satisfied with.

With React, I'm in familiar territory. I can install packages I'm used to working with and easily implement alternatives if needed. The main pitfall during the transition was understanding why some links weren't working. It turns out that GitHub Pages doesn't support the `BrowserRouter` from `react-router`; I had to use the `HashRouter` instead.

My blog now has Bootstrap for styling and responsivity, and I've added the bilingual functionality I wanted so much. With the `markdown-to-jsx` package, I can even continue to write my articles in Markdown. The only real downgrade I had in switching to React is that I now have to enter the information for each of my posts in a JSON file. A database, of sorts. With Jekyll, all I had to do was name the files in a certain way, put them in the right folder, and specify some metadata in their header, and that was it. If it becomes too cumbersome, I could eventually address this issue with a script during static file generation or by switching to Next.js.