I just finished season 1 of Mr.Robot. I had heard about this series a few years ago and finally decided to watch it after seeing the trailer for the movie The Amateur on Youtube, which stars the same actor.

We follow Elliot Alderson, a talented hacker, who plans and executes the destruction of E-Corp, a powerful conglomerate with ties to all sectors of society (banking, insurance, technology, energy, ...). Years ago, a scandal related to toxic waste management allegedly led to the death of dozens of E-Corp employees, including Elliot's father and his best friend Angela's mother.

Now young professionals, Elliot and Angela work for AllSafe, a small cybersecurity company whose main client is E-Corp. Passionate about computers but absolutely hating to serve the people whose negligence killed his father, Elliot ends up joining fsociety (an Anonymous equivalent). The organization's goal is to bring down the financial world as we know it and erase everyone's debt. Their main target: E-Corp.

The story is gripping. Sometimes it's a bit hard to follow because we see things from Elliot's perspective, but between his morphine use and his psychosis, he doesn't always have a good grip on reality. By the end of the season, we begin to understand that Mr.Robot, who is behind Elliot's involvement with fsociety, is probably simply a product of his imagination.

Throughout the episodes, I realized that I was more interested in the side stories than the main plot. I was less interested in the strategy leading to E-Corp's destruction than in the story of the ambitious Tyrell Wellick, who would absolutely do anything to become E-Corp's CTO, or the one between Angela and Ollie.

I really enjoyed the soundtrack, which has a very 80s feel and reminded me at times of the movie Limitless. Episode 5 ends with Love on a Real Train, the Tangerine Dream classic from Risky Business.

The main negative point was Elliot's voiceover when narrating a scene got on my nerves. I understand it's part of the character, but the deliberately monotonous tone of his mumbling was annoying.

All in all, I'm very eager to know what happens next and I'll probably watch season 2 in the coming days.
