I went to see A Working Man at the cinema. It's Jason Statham's latest film.

The plot was built on the same template as his other recent films: a blue-collar worker who had managed to put his special forces past behind him must reluctantly become who he once was when loved ones are threatened. It reminds me of the South Park joke with Rob Schneider: "Rob Schneider is... a carrot!", "Rob Schneider is... a stapler!". After being an industrial worker seeking revenge, an armored truck driver seeking revenge, and a beekeeper seeking revenge, Jason Statham is... a construction worker seeking revenge!

Whatever, I can't get enough of it. In A Working Man, Jason Statham is a construction site foreman, and Jenny, his best friend's (and boss's) daughter, gets kidnapped. While trying to find Jenny, Statham gets into trouble with the Russian mafia. Several times, I felt like I was watching a mix between Equalizer 1 and John Wick 1. Among other things, the first encounter with Dimi strongly reminded me of the scene where Denzel Washington is in Slavi's office trying to buy Alina's freedom.

It was entertaining but a bit too long. At one point, Statham had problems with so many different people that I couldn't see how the movie would ever end. Statham's entanglement with the Russian mafia and Dutch's gang had become so significant that Jenny's kidnapping was almost incidental. Overall, there were too many villains and, more importantly, none of them clearly stood out as "the final boss."

I had a good time. Despite the lengthy storyline, it delivered on what matters most: showing criminals getting beaten up. I knew what to expect when I walked into the theater, and I got it. Not like someone who might have gone to see the Snow White remake expecting to sit through a good Disney classic, for example. You don't change a working formula, and even though Jason Statham's latest movies are similar to one another, I'm glad I saw this one and I'll go see the next one.
