The film begins as Ray King meets the mysterious assassin Anaïs in a bar to discuss the case of a Salvadoran family that has disappeared. He only has an old photo of a young boy and his parents. Suddenly, they are attacked by what appears to be cartel members. King takes refuge in the bathroom. He defends himself well, manages to eliminate 2-3 men, but is ultimately shot by a sniper as he exits the bar. Anaïs manages to escape.  
Later at the morgue, Medina identifies her boss's body. In the bathroom partition, just before his final battle, King had time to write a message for Medina on his arm: "Find the Accountant."

The Accountant 2 was entertaining, even though I admit I got lost in the story a few times. In that regard, it held together less well than the first film.
For instance, Anaïs. It turns out (sorry for the spoiler) that she is the woman in the photo (the wife of the missing family). I wondered throughout the rest of the film if I had understood correctly. This ordinary housewife with an average face would have become, a few years after a car accident, a pin-up chess champion super-assassin? I thought the Québec government and the SAAQ ran advertising campaigns to raise awareness about road safety; actually, no, they just want to prevent ordinary citizens from turning into war machines.  
Then, I didn't really understand the importance of the missing family. More specifically, the importance they had for Christian and, even more so, his brother Braxton, for them to be so motivated to solve this case. I would have understood if it had been Equalizer, but for the Wolff brothers, beyond the obvious fact that human trafficking is wrong, I thought it didn't make much sense. Christian, for King's memory, and Braxton, to reconnect with his brother? That's how I ended up explaining it to myself, but it seems quite weak.

Nevertheless, I had a good time. The first scene, the one with King in the bar, kicked off the movie really well.  
The chemistry between the brothers was authentic. Usually, I'm not a fan of comic relief scenes in action movies, but in this one, even though there were several that didn't further the main plot, it worked well.
