### 2:15 PM EDT
I took the 747 bus from downtown. At 3:05 PM, I arrived at the airport.  
We had been warned that there might be issues going through US customs and that some travelers had their phones searched, but that wasn't my case. Without saying it was an urban legend, it was probably exaggerated, like many things we hear about the United States. The probability of it happening certainly was. When I told the customs officer I was going to a conference, he didn't even ask which one.

<Carousel
    images="/assets/2025/06/20250601_sf2025/yul.jpg,/assets/2025/06/20250601_sf2025/yul2.jpg",
    caption="At Montréal Airport"
/>

While waiting for the flight scheduled to depart at 6:30 PM, I went through the Snowflake documentation articles that the Hackathon organizers had suggested we read.

### 9:20 PM PDT
The plane landed in San Francisco.  
I grabbed a cookie, a banana, and an orange juice at an airport café and headed to the taxi area. When exiting the airport building, there was a street to cross. Then, we lined up and a dispatcher directed travelers to the taxis parked right in front.

<Carousel
    images="/assets/2025/06/20250601_sf2025/sfo.jpg,/assets/2025/06/20250601_sf2025/sfo2.jpg",
    caption="At San Francisco Airport"
/>

I tried to take photos in the taxi, but with the speed and darkness made it difficult.

### 10:30 PM PDT
The taxi dropped me off in front of the Adagio Hotel. The air was cool. There were hardly any people on the street.  
I had room 1511, on the second-to-last floor. The room was at the end of the hallway. Inside the entrance, there was a small passage leading to the large space. The bed was huge; I think it was a "king" size. The bathroom was spacious and looked very fancy. In one corner of the room, there was a minibar with chargeable snacks. On the opposite wall, a beautiful large window faced north.

<Carousel
    images="/assets/2025/06/20250601_sf2025/adagio.jpg,/assets/2025/06/20250601_sf2025/adagio2.jpg,/assets/2025/06/20250601_sf2025/adagio3.jpg,/assets/2025/06/20250601_sf2025/adagio4.jpg,/assets/2025/06/20250601_sf2025/adagio5.jpg,/assets/2025/06/20250601_sf2025/adagio6.jpg,/assets/2025/06/20250601_sf2025/adagio8.jpg,/assets/2025/06/20250601_sf2025/adagio7.jpg",
    caption="Arrived at the Adagio Autograph Collection Hotel"
/>

At 11:15 PM, I went to bed.
